=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_caCerts,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_caCerts,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaCert,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaCert,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaKeyUpdate,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaKeyUpdate
- CMP utility functions for handling specific genm and genp messages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/cmp.h>

 OSSL_CMP_ITAV *OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_caCerts(const STACK_OF(X509) *caCerts);
 int OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_caCerts(const OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav, STACK_OF(X509) **out);

 OSSL_CMP_ITAV *OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaCert(const X509 *rootCaCert);
 int OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaCert(const OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav, X509 **out);
 OSSL_CMP_ITAV *OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaKeyUpdate(const X509 *newWithNew,
                                                  const X509 *newWithOld,
                                                  const X509 *oldWithNew);
 int OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaKeyUpdate(const OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav,
                                        X509 **newWithNew,
                                        X509 **newWithOld,
                                        X509 **oldWithNew);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ITAV is short for InfoTypeAndValue.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_caCerts() creates an B<OSSL_CMP_ITAV> structure of type
B<caCerts> and fills it with a copy of the provided list of certificates.
The I<caCerts> argument may be NULL or contain any number of certificates.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_caCerts() requires that I<itav> has type B<caCerts>.
It assigns NULL to I<*out> if there are no CA certificates in I<itav>, otherwise
the internal pointer of type B<STACK_OF(X509)> with the certificates present.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaCert() creates an B<OSSL_CMP_ITAV> structure of type
B<rootCaCert> that includes a copy of the given certificate
if I<rootCaCert> is not NULL.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaCert() requires that I<itav> has type B<rootCaCert>.
It assigns NULL to I<*out> if there is no certificate in I<itav>, otherwise
the internal pointer to the certificate contained in the infoValue field.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaKeyUpdate() creates an B<OSSL_CMP_ITAV> structure
of type B<rootCaKeyUpdate> that has no RootCaKeyUpdateContent structure if
I<newWithNew> is NULL and otherwise includes a RootCaKeyUpdateContent structure
with copies of the I<newWithNew> certificate
and of the optionally given certificates I<newWithOld> and I<oldWithNew>.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaKeyUpdate()
requires that I<itav> has type B<rootCaKeyUpdate>.
It assigns NULL to I<*newWithNew> if no root CA key update value is in I<itav>,
otherwise an internal pointer to the certificate contained in the newWithNew
field of the RootCaKeyUpdateContent structure.
If I<newWithOld> is not NULL, it assigns to I<*newWithOld> an internal pointer
to the certificate contained in the newWithOld field.
If I<oldWithNew> is not NULL, it assigns to I<*oldWithNew> an internal pointer
to the certificate contained in the oldWithNew field.
Each of these two pointers will be NULL if no root CA key update value
is in I<itav> or the respective field is not present.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_caCerts(),
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaCert(), OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaKeyUpdate(),
return a pointer to the new ITAV structure on success, or NULL on error.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_caCerts(),
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaCert(), OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaKeyUpdate(),
return 1 on success, 0 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSSL_CMP_ITAV_create(3)> and L<OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_type(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_caCerts(), OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_caCerts(),
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaCert(), OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaCert(),
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaKeyUpdate(), OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaKeyUpdate(),
were added in OpenSSL 3.2.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2022 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
