=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_build_cert_chain,
X509_verify_cert - discover and verify X509 certificate chain

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509.h>

 STACK_OF(X509) *OSSL_build_cert_chain(OSSL_LIB_CTX *libctx, const char *propq,
                                       X509_STORE *store,
                                       STACK_OF(X509) *inter, X509 *cert);
 int X509_verify_cert(X509_STORE_CTX *ctx);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OSSL_build_cert_chain() builds a certificate chain starting from I<cert>
using the optional list of intermediate CA certificates I<inter>.
If I<store> is NULL builds the chain as far down as possible, ignoring errors.
Else the chain must reach a trust anchor contained in I<store>.
It internally uses a B<X509_STORE_CTX> structure associated with the library
context I<libctx> and property query string I<propq>, both of which may be NULL.

The X509_verify_cert() function attempts to discover and validate a
certificate chain based on parameters in B<ctx>.
The verification context, of type B<X509_STORE_CTX>, can be constructed
using L<X509_STORE_CTX_new(3)> and L<X509_STORE_CTX_init(3)>.
It usually includes a set of certificates serving as trust anchors,
a set of non-trusted certificates that may be needed for chain construction,
flags such as X509_V_FLAG_X509_STRICT, and various other optional components
such as a callback function that allows customizing the verification outcome.
A complete description of the certificate verification process is contained in
the L<openssl-verification-options(1)> manual page.

Applications rarely call this function directly but it is used by
OpenSSL internally for certificate validation, in both the S/MIME and
SSL/TLS code.

A negative return value from X509_verify_cert() can occur if it is invoked
incorrectly, such as with no certificate set in B<ctx>, or when it is called
twice in succession without reinitialising B<ctx> for the second call.
A negative return value can also happen due to internal resource problems or if
a retry operation is requested during internal lookups (which never happens
with standard lookup methods).
Applications must check for <= 0 return value on error.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

ossl_cmp_build_cert_chain() returns NULL on error,
else a pointer to a stack of (up_ref'ed) certificates
starting with the given certificate and followed by all available intermediate
certificates down towards, but excluding, any trust anchor (root certificate).
In case there is more than one possibility for the chain, only one is taken.
If a non-NULL stack is returned the caller is responsible for freeing it.

If a complete chain can be built and validated X509_verify_cert() returns 1,
otherwise it returns zero; in exceptional (internal error) circumstances
it can also return a negative code.

If X509_verify_cert() fails additional error information can be obtained by
examining B<ctx> using, for example L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error(3)>.

=head1 BUGS

This function uses the header F<< <x509.h> >>
as opposed to most chain verification
functions which use F<< <x509_vfy.h> >>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509_STORE_CTX_new(3)>, L<X509_STORE_CTX_init(3)>,
L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009-2020 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
